# Problem Statement  
AtliQ Grands, a prominent player in the Indian hospitality industry with over 20 years of experience and multiple five-star hotels, is currently facing a significant decline in market share and revenue within the luxury/business hotel category. This downturn is attributed to strategic moves by competitors and ineffective decision-making within the management team. To counteract this trend and regain their competitive edge, AtliQ Grands' managing director has decided to incorporate "Business and Data Intelligence" into their strategy. However, the lack of an in-house data analytics team poses a challenge in extracting actionable insights from their historical data. Therefore, AtliQ Grands' revenue management team has decided to engage a third-party service provider to leverage data analytics for informed decision-making and to drive revenue growth. The primary objective is to identify key factors contributing to the decline, optimize pricing strategies, enhance customer satisfaction, and ultimately restore AtliQ Grands' market position in the luxury/business hotel segment.    

# 1. ASK  
Revenue Management Team    

### Task:  
You are a data analyst who has been provided with sample data and a mock-up dashboard to work on the following task.
- Create the metrics according to the metric list.
- Create a dashboard according to the mock-up provided by stakeholders.
- Create relevant insights that are not provided in the metric list/mock-up dashboard.


# 2. PREPARE
### Data Storage:
The public dataset is completely available on the Code basis website platform where it stores and consolidates all available datasets for analysis. The specific individual datasets at hand can be obtained at this link below: https://codebasics.io/challenge/codebasics-resume-project-challenge

### Data Organized:
The dataset is taken from the AtliQ. Thanks to the AtliQ for providing datasets for public access which is a great learning asset - feel free to explore them. This dataset contains 5 csv file, 1 text file (meta_data) & mock_up_dashboard.  


# 3. PROCESS
### Tools Used:
- Microsoft Excel
- Power BI

### Data Used:
1. dim_date
2. dim_hotels
3. dim_rooms
4. fact_aggregated_bookings
5. fact_bookings

### About Data:  
Column Description for dim_date:
1. date: This column represents the dates present in May, June and July.
2. mmm yy: This column represents the date in the format of mmm yy (monthname year).
3. week no: This column represents the unique week number for that particular date.
4. day_type: This column represents whether the given day is Weekend or Weekeday.

Column Description for dim_hotels:
1. property_id: This column represents the Unique ID for each of the hotels.
2. property_name: This column represents the name of each hotel.
3. category: This column determines which class[Luxury, Business] a particular hotel/property belongs to. 
4. city: This column represents where the particular hotel/property resides in.

Column Description for dim_rooms:
1. room_id: This column represents the type of room[RT1, RT2, RT3, RT4] in a hotel.
2. room_class: This column represents to which class[Standard, Elite, Premium, Presidential] particular room type belongs.

Column Description for fact_aggregated_bookings:
1. property_id: This column represents the Unique ID for each of the hotels.
2. check_in_date: This column represents all the check_in_dates of the customers.
3. room_category: This column represents the type of room[RT1, RT2, RT3, RT4] in a hotel.
4. successful_bookings: This column represents all the successful room bookings that happen for a particular room type in that hotel on that particular date.
5. capacity: This column represents the maximum count of rooms available for a particular room type in that hotel on that particular date.

Column Description for fact_bookings:
1. booking_id: This column represents the Unique Booking ID for each customer when they booked their rooms.
2. property_id: This column represents the Unique ID for each of the hotels
3. booking_date: This column represents the date on which the customer booked their rooms.
4. check_in_date: This column represents the date on which the customer check-in(entered) at the hotel.
5. check_out_date: This column represents the date on which the customer check-out(left) of the hotel.
6. no_guests: This column represents the number of guests who stayed in a particular room in that hotel.
7. room_category: This column represents the type of room[RT1, RT2, RT3, RT4] in a hotel.
8. booking_platform: This column represents in which way the customer booked his room.
9. ratings_given: This column represents the ratings given by the customer for hotel services.
10. booking_status: This column represents whether the customer cancelled his booking[Cancelled], successfully stayed in the hotel[Checked Out] or booked his room but not stayed in the hotel[No show].
11. revenue_generated: This column represents the amount of money generated by the hotel from a particular customer.
12. revenue_realized: This column represents the final amount of money that goes to the hotel based on booking status. If the booking status is cancelled, then 40% of the revenue generated is deducted and the remaining is refunded to the customer. If the booking status is Checked Out/No show, then full revenue generated will goes to hotels.
















